intro
-Good morning,
I am Abhishek Balkrishna palve, 
I did my engineering from Mumbai university.
After that i got a chance to work as a python data scientist in “abc company”,
during this 1 year of service I was involved in Python, machine learning, Data science along with SQL. 
I was involved in requirement analysis,programming,unit testing,defect fix,client interacton.

sql role in data science
-SQL is a special-purpose programming language for managing data held in relational database management systems. 
Almost all structured data is stored in such databases, so, if you want to play with data, 
chances are you'll want to know some SQL.

diff betwnn list and tuple
-The primary difference between tuples and lists is that tuples are immutable as opposed to lists which are mutable. 
Therefore, it is possible to change a list but not a tuple.
The contents of a tuple cannot change once they have been created in Python due to the immutability of tuples.

diff between and  ani  &
-Both of these are the expressions that we use in the Python language, 
but there is a fundamental difference between ‘and’ and ‘&’ in Python. 
The ‘and’ expression tests if both the expressions used are True (logically). The ‘&’ expression, 
on the other hand (when used with False/ True values), tests if both of these are True.

ordered data type?
-ordered means that the items have a defined order, and that order will not change. 
If you add new items to a list, the new items will be placed at the end of the list.
order data types:- list, tuple, dict.

unordered data types?
-unordered means that the items dont have a defined order.
unordered data types:- set. dict is unordered till python 3.6version.

membership operator
-We use membership operators to check whether a value or variable exists in a sequence or not in string, list, tuples, sets, dictionary.
operator:- in, not in

which loop to use if we want to check more than 2 condition
-if-else-ladder(elif) is use if more than 2 conditions.

when to use  for loop?
-A "For" Loop is used to repeat a specific block of code a known number of times. 
For example, if we want to check the grade of every student in the class, we loop from 1 to that number. 
When the number of times is not known before hand, we use a "While" loop.

logical operator?
-AND--> 2 condition true o/p is 1
OR--> 1 condition true o/p is 1
NOT--> if 0 then 1, 1 then 0

in string if we want first alphabet capital
- use capitalize.
-upper--> to make all capitale
-lower--> to make all lower

how to remove duplicate element?
-by using set datat type.

remove pop and discard difference?
-remove--> hard delete- if element present then delete otherwise key error.
 discard--> soft delete- if element present then delete otherwise skip.
 pop--> use to delete element randomly.

python cases?
-pascal--> 1st and middle capital->GPay, YouTube
 camel--> 1st small, middle capital-> iPhone, eBay
 snake--> connect word with'_'->id_name

Advantages of python
-It's Simple.
It's Free.
It's Easy to Use.
It's Highly Compatible.
It is Object-Oriented.
It has Lots of Libraries.
It has Built-in Data Structures.
It's Widely Applicable.

disadvantages of python
-if you write code in old version and want to run in new it wil not work(back word compatibility).
we can't develope mobile applicati9on

